---
title: BCI-Base, BCI-Minimal, BCI-Micro, and BCI-BusyBox
slug: general-purpose-bci
---

SUSE offers several general-purpose SLE Base Container Images that are
intended as deployment targets or as foundations for creating customized
images: BCI-Base, BCI-Minimal, BCI-Micro, and BCI-BusyBox. These images
share the common SLES base, and none of them ship with a specific
language or an application stack. All images feature the RPM database
(even if the specific image does not include the RPM package manager)
that can be used to verify the provenance of every file in the image.
Each image includes the SLES certificate bundle, which allows the
deployed applications to use the system's certificates to verify TLS
connections.

== Quick overview

The table below provides a quick overview of the differences between
BCI-Base, BCI-Minimal, BCI-Micro, and BCI-BusyBox.

== BCI-Base and BCI-Init: When you need flexibility

This SLE BCI comes with the Zypper package manager and a free SLE-BCI
repository. This allows you to install software available in the
repository and customize the image during the build. The downside is the
size of the image. It is the largest of the general-purpose SLE BCIs, so
it is not always the best choice for a deployment image.

A variant of BCI-Base called BCI-Init comes with systemd preinstalled.
The BCI-Init container image can be useful in scenarios requiring
systemd for managing services in a single container.

== BCI-Minimal: When you do not need Zypper

This is a stripped-down version of the BCI-Base image. BCI-Minimal comes
without Zypper, but it does have the RPM package manager installed. This
significantly reduces the size of the image. However, while RPM can
install and remove packages, it lacks support for repositories and
automated dependency resolution. The BCI-Minimal image is therefore
intended for creating deployment containers, and then installing the
desired RPM packages inside the containers. Although you can install the
required dependencies, you need to download and resolve them manually.
However, this approach is not recommended as it is prone to errors.

== BCI-Micro: When you need to deploy static binaries

This image is similar to BCI-Minimal but without the RPM package
manager. The primary use case for the image is deploying static binaries
produced externally or during multi-stage builds. As there is no
straightforward way to install additional dependencies inside the
container image, we recommend deploying a project using the BCI-Minimal
image only when the final build artifact bundles all dependencies and
has no external runtime requirements (like Python or Ruby).

== BCI-BusyBox: When you need the smallest and GPLv3-free image

Similar to BCI-Micro, the BCI-BusyBox image comes with the most basic
tools only. However, these tools are provided by the BusyBox project.
This has the benefit of further size reduction. Furthermore, the image
contains no GPLv3 licensed software. When using the image, keep in mind
that there are certain differences between the BusyBox tools and the GNU
Coreutils. So scripts written for a system that uses GNU Coreutils may
require modification to work with BusyBox.

== Approximate sizes

For your reference, the list below provides an approximate size of each
SLE BCI. Keep in mind that the provided numbers are rough estimations.

* BCI-Base ~94 MB
* BCI-Minimal ~42 MB
* BCI-Micro ~26 MB
* BCI-BusyBox ~14 MB
