---
title: Why SLE Base Container Images
slug: why-sle-bci
---


SLE BCIs offer a platform for creating SLE-based custom container images
and containerized applications that can be distributed freely. SLE BCIs
feature the same predictable enterprise lifecycle as SLES. The `SLE_BCI`
15 SP3 and SP4 repository (which is a subset of the SLE repository)
gives SLE BCIs access to 4,000 packages available for the AMD64/Intel
64, AArch64, ppc64le, and s390x architectures. The packages in the
repository have undergone quality assurance and security audits by SUSE.
The container images are FIPS-compliant when running on a host in FIPS
mode. In addition to that, SUSE can provide official support for SLE
BCIs through SUSE subscription plans.

== Security

Each package in the SLE_BCI repository undergoes security audits, and
SLE BCIs benefit from the same mechanism of dealing with CVEs as SLES.
All discovered and fixed vulnerabilities are announced via e-mail, the
dedicated https://www.suse.com/security/cve/[CVE pages], and as OVAL and
CVRF data. To ensure a secure supply chain, all container images are
signed with Notary v1, Podman's GPG signatures, and Sigstore Cosign.

== Stability

Since SLE BCIs are based on SLE, they feature the same level of
stability and quality assurance as SUSE Linux Enterprise Server. Similar
to SLES, SLE BCIs receive maintenance updates that provide bug fixes,
improvements, and security patches.

== Tooling and integration

SLE BCIs are designed to provide drop-in replacements for popular
container images available on hub.docker.com. You can use the
general-purpose SLE BCIs and the tools they put at your disposal to
create custom container images, while the language stack SLE BCIs
provide a foundation and the required tooling for building containerized
applications.

== Redistribution

SLE BCIs are covered by a permissive
https://www.suse.com/licensing/eula/#bci[EULA] that allows you to
redistribute custom container images based on a SLE BCI.
